Emma Angus
12/01/2021
Quantitative Reasoning Reflection

1.
    Throughout this semester we used many quantitative methods, techniques,
and algorithms to help improve the functionality of our program. What I mean by
improving the functionality is determining what method to use based on what the
program/ final result is going to be. For example, if making a game there will
be times that you want to use loops to help break a large portion of code into
smaller parts. This way it makes it easier to understand and figure out if
something is wrong with the code and where that error might be.
    When we create lists we used loops that would loop through the entire list
to find what was needing to be found/used for the code. We used classes in
many programs that we created to help manage multiple data attributes. This is
another way that helps break a larger portion of code into smaller parts.
Functions were used to help make code easier to read. In our first two labs,
we used functions to help us draw pictures.

2.
    Coding can be very confusing to people that don’t understand it, but if you
program the right way then it should be easy for one programmer to communicate
their code to another by making sure they use the correct variable names,
function names, and by using comments. When it comes to naming variables and
functions in your code, the best way to name them is by what they are.
For example, if you need to name a variable that is going to be a wall in the picture
then I would name the variable wall, so then it is easier to understand what the
code is doing. While you are coding it is very important to add clear comments
that show what is happening with this portion of the code because then you are
able to clearly explain what this part of the code is doing. Lastly, line spacing
does not seem like that big of a deal but in the end, it does play a role in
making the code look neat and easier to read.

3.
    In this class, we tested our code multiple times because that was the only way
to figure out if it ran properly. There were many times that I ran my code and
had errors, which means I would have to go back and figure out where the error
was and then fix it so the program would run correctly. Making my code easy to
read and breaking it into smaller portions, made fixing errors easier. Also,
when it came to trying to fix an error it is crucial to only change one thing
at a time because if change multiple lines of code then you might not know where
the error actually is or where the program is crashing at. In this class, it
was easy to tell if the data that was returned was correct or not because we
programmed games or pictures. You could tell if the data returned was correct
by the way the picture turned out and if the game was functioning properly
or not.

4.
    The limitation in using numerical methods to make decisions is you have to
make sure the code works and test all possibilities because it is easy for
something to run and may look right, but it actually isn’t. The reason why we
can’t just replace humans with algorithms is that sometimes you might not be
able to find an algorithm that will work for what needs to be done. Yes,
algorithms are more accurate when you find the right one to use that would
actually work but there are certain jobs that humans do that just can not be
replaced with. Evaluating students only on their test scores wouldn't be accurate
or fair at all because there are many students like myself that are not the best
at testing. Some students like myself are better with hands-on learning like
doing an internship while other students prefer to just take a test over the
material. Normally the students that do not test the best end up doing better
in the workforce once done with school.
    In today’s world, we can not just evaluate teachers based on how the
students do because teachers teach in many ways and some kids learn better in
some ways while others learn better in different ways. It is not the teachers’
fault if the kid isn’t doing well because maybe the kid is just having a hard
time understanding the material the way the teacher is teaching it. I have had
this happen to me before in high school. I am normally good at math but the way
the teacher was explaining the material was just hard for me to grasp the
content. So I went to another teacher to get help and the way they explained it
made the material seem really easy.
    As we know in sports stats are the thing that everyone looks at which is
good but also bad I think. Evaluating athletes by only their stats doesn't show
the true athlete that they are and how they actually perform in certain
situations in the game or match or meet. Evaluating an athlete only by their
stats is like only looking at students’ test scores to see if they are doing
well or not. There is more to an athlete than just their stats and there is also
more to students than just their test scores and finally, there is more to a
person than just what you see on the outside.
